For my master’s degree in business analytics capstone, I attempted to forecast rail freight demand in the continental United States. Freight, in general, is a crucial aspect of the supply chain, especially regarding raw goods. Rail specifically is often an integral part of that supply chain, dealing primarily in bulk commodities, such as grain, coal, and auto parts. Yet it is often not as represented as air cargo or trucking. This project aims to predict future rail freight demand for investment decisions and a possible indicator of U.S. economic health. The data consists of government-provided publications such as the Transportation Service Index, CFNAI, and Real GDP. The actual rail freight will be represented by the number of rail freight carloads and rail freight intermodal, as opposed to tonnage or value due to data collection difficulty.
	Machine learning has started entering the rail industry, primarily focusing on safety and predictive maintenance. Most articles dedicated to transportation demand I have found were oriented towards people as the primary cargo. Other freight cargo has been forecasted before; however, I did not find any specifically dedicated to rail freight. 
	The three data sources used specifically in my forecasting are the Transportation Service Index (TSI), the Chicago Fed National Activity Index (CFNAI), and the Federal Reserve Bank St. Louis Real GDP. Other data sources such as commodity producer price indices and U.S industrial production were considered but due to the accelerated nature of this course, I selected those three as a starting point. The data sources mentioned above are published by the U.S. government, which for data quality purposes, academic or otherwise, is considered authentic and trustworthy. These data sources were also selected because of their industry-wide acceptance of economic health indicators, which are widely known. 
	The analyses within this repository show the models and the process used to gain an accurate forecast of rail freight demand within the United States. 
